## Intro to NCBI

The NCBI is devoted to maintaining genetic information and promoting knowledge in this realm. It is funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and is the primary data repository in the US for nucleic acid sequence data. Researchers can upload raw reads as well as download sequence data, gene data, protein data, and genomes. It is phenomenal resource for the community, made even better by the fact that they have a suite of data scientists developing bioinformatic tools and distrubting these tools and tutorials to the public.

For our class, we are mostly interested in 1) the types of data we can find 2) how to find these data and 3) how to download these data. I regularly do all of these activities in pursuit of my work. One of the coolest things about NCBI is that they have software that lets you easily and programmatically download data! For example, I have used it to download sequence data for >250 individual Illumina samples at once. Anyway, hopefully this convinces you that it is worthwile to learn to use NCBI. I recently came across a phenomenal NCBI tutorial called [A Biology Student’s Guide to Finding & Organizing NCBI Data for Research Projects](https://www.nlm.nih.gov/ncbi/workshops/2023-06_organizing-biology-data/workshop-details.html), so today's tutorial follows along with this. I feel the need to make a clarification: if you applying for a research lab as an undergraduate or for a graduate degree ... no one expects you to prepare for a meeting like this! Please note that there is both a video and the tutorial content. 

This tutorial includes more than just using NCBI, it includes really good information about orthologous genes, protein structure, etc. There is a canvas quiz to go along with the material. You are required to do steps 1-4 and 7 for the quiz, but doing steps 5 and 6 will also be pretty informative for you. Go get it!

Note: I could not get the data portion of Step 1 to work the way they describe. This must be a new change, but instead you can scroll down to "Relevant information" and click on "Related Project".
